.\" Copyright Oryx Mail Systems GmbH. Enquiries to info@oryx.com, please.
.TH aoxsuper.conf 5 2007-01-15 www.oryx.com "Archiveopteryx Documentation"
.SH NAME
aoxsuper.conf - configuration file for Archiveopteryx.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $CONFIGDIR/aoxsuper.conf
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.PP
The
.I aoxsuper.conf
file contains a few configuration settings for Archiveopteryx. It is read by
.BR aox (8)
at startup. Syntax errors, unknown variables,
and other errors are logged on stderr.
.PP
.I aoxsuper.conf
is usually created at installation time, by running
.BR $LIBDIR/installer .
.PP
There is only one required variable, namely 
.IR db-owner-password .
.SH "SECURITY NOTE"
Anyone who can read
.I aoxsuper.conf
can see the database owner password, and use this password to read all
mail, or even to damage or destroy the mail database.
.PP
By default,
.I aoxsuper.conf
is readable only by root.
.SH SETTINGS
.PP
The format is as for
.BR archiveopteryx.conf (5):
.IP
name = value # comment
.PP
All variables in
.BR archiveopteryx.conf (5)
may be overridden in
.IR aoxsuper.conf ,
if it is necessary that
.BR aox (8)
sees a different value than the servers see.
.SS "Database Access"
.IP db-owner
The name of the Postgres user that owns the database and is used to
perform privileged operations (such as deleting mail). The default is
.IR $DBOWNER .
.IP db-owner-password
The database password used for the
.IR db-owner .
The default is an empty string.
.IP
Unless a password is specified, Archiveopteryx sets up a randomly-chosen
password and writes it to the configuration file during installation.
.SH AUTHOR
The Archiveopteryx developers, info@oryx.com.
.SH VERSION
This man page covers Archiveopteryx version 1.14, released 2007-01-15,
http://www.archiveopteryx.org/1.14.html.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR archiveopteryx.conf (5),
.BR archiveopteryx (8),
.BR deliver (8),
.BR logd (8),
.BR ocd (8),
.BR tlsproxy (8),
.BR oryx (7),
http://www.archiveopteryx.org
