.\" Copyright Oryx Mail Systems GmbH. Enquiries to info@oryx.com, please.
.TH archiveopteryx.conf 5 2006-03-13 www.oryx.com "Archiveopteryx Documentation"
.SH NAME
archiveopteryx.conf - configuration file for Archiveopteryx.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $CONFIGDIR/archiveopteryx.conf
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.PP
The
.I archiveopteryx.conf
file contains all global configuration settings for Archiveopteryx. It
is read by each server at startup. Syntax errors, unknown variables,
and other errors are logged via
.BR logd (8).
.PP
.I archiveopteryx.conf
is usually created at installation time, by running
.BR $LIBDIR/installer .
.PP
There is only one required variable, namely 
.IR db-password .
.SH "SECURITY NOTE"
Anyone who can read
.I archiveopteryx.conf
can see the database password, and use this password to damage or
destroy the mail database.
.PP
By default,
.I archiveopteryx.conf
is readable only by root.
.SH SETTINGS
.PP
All settings share a common format:
.IP
name = value # comment
.PP
.SS "General Settings"
.IP hostname
Most of the servers need to know the fully-qualified hostname. The
default is computed at runtime and is normally acceptable.
.IP
Note that if the name is "localhost", there may be problems with
TLS. An IMAP/POP/SMTP/HTTP client may refuse a server certificate for
"localhost" if it already has a different certificate for
"localhost". We strongly suggest using a different
.IR hostname .
.IP use-ipv4
decides whether the various servers accept IPv4 connections.
.I true
by default.
.IP use-ipv6
decides whether the various servers accept IPv6 connections.
.I true
by default.
.SS "Database Access"
.IP db
The type of database. The default,
.IR postgres ,
is currently the only supported value.
.IP db-address
The address of the database server. The default is
.IR $DBADDRESS .
You may use an IPv4 or IPv6 address, or the fully-qualified path to a
Unix socket.
.IP db-port
The port number of the database server. The default is
.IR 5432 .
.IP db-name
The name of the database to use. The default is
.IR $DBNAME .
.IP db-user
The user name Archiveopteryx should use to connect to the database. The
default is
.IR $DBUSER .
.IP db-password
The password Archiveopteryx should use to connect to the database. The
default is an empty string.
.IP
During installation, Archiveopteryx sets up a randomly-chosen password by
default.
.IP db-max-handles
The maximum number of database handles that Archiveopteryx may open. The
default is
.IR 4 .
.IP
The server creates one handle at startup, and may create others if the
load justifies it (and as controlled by
.IR db-handle-interval ).
Note, however, that when running with
.IR security=on ,
new database handles can be created only if you connect to the server
using TCP/IP, not via Unix sockets. In the latter case, the server must
use the first handle throughout its lifetime, since the socket is no
longer accessible after
.IR chroot .
.IP db-handle-interval
The minimum interval (in seconds) between the creation of new database
handles. The default is
.IR 120 .
.SS Logging
.IP log-address
The address of the log server. The default is
.IR 127.0.0.1 .
You may use an IPv4 or IPv6 address, or the fully-qualified path to a
Unix socket.
.IP log-port
The port number at which
.BR logd (8)
listens, and to which the other servers connect. The default is
.IR 2054 .
.IP logfile
tells
.BR logd (8)
where to write log events. It may be set to an absolute file name
(starting with '/'), or
.IR "-" ,
which causes everything to be logged to
.IR stdout .
The default is to log to
.IR $LOGFILE . 
.IP logfile-mode
is
.I $LOGFILEMODE
by default and controls the permissions used by
.BR logd (8)
if it creates
.IR logfile .
The format (three octal digits) is the same as that used by
.BR chmod (1).
.IP log-level
may be set to
.IR debug ,
.IR info ,
or
.IR error ,
in increasing order of severity (it is
.I info
by default). If a message is logged with this severity or above, the log
server writes it to the logfile immediately. Messages with lower severity
are considered only when the transaction is commited, or when a message
is logged with a severity of
.I error 
or greater.
.SS Security
.IP security
is
.I enabled
by default, and should be enabled whenever Archiveopteryx is
used in production. It causes the servers to lock themselves into a
.I chroot
jail and drop root privileges once startup is complete.
.IP
Turning security off has exactly one advantage: it simplifies
debugging.
.IP jail-directory
is
.I $JAILDIR
by default. On startup, each secure server uses
.BR chroot (2)
to jail themselves into this directory, which should be empty and
unreadable to
.IR jail-user .
.IP jail-user
is the user name under which the servers run, and is
.I $ORYXUSER
by default. On startup, the servers change UID to this user. This user
should not have read or write access to the jail directory.
.IP jail-group
is the group name under which the servers run, and is
.I $ORYXGROUP
by default. On startup, the servers change GID to this user.
.SS "Cluster Configuration"
.IP ocd-address
The address where
.BR ocd (8)
listens for connections from other Archiveopteryx servers. The default is
.IR 127.0.0.1 .
You may use an IPv4 or IPv6 address, or the fully-qualified path to a
Unix socket.
.IP ocd-port
The port number at which
.BR ocd (8)
listens, and to which the other servers connect,
.I 2050
by default.
.IP ocadmin-address
The address where
.BR ocd (8)
listens for admin requests. The default is
.IR 127.0.0.1 .
You may use an IPv4 or IPv6 address, or the fully-qualified path to a
Unix socket.
.IP ocadmin-port
The port number at which
.BR ocd (8)
listens for admin requests.
.I 2051
by default.
.SS "User Authentication"
http://www.oryx.com/archiveopteryx/sasl.html describes SASL and
authentication in more detail.
.IP allow-plaintext-passwords
controls whether the servers permit plaintext passwords, and how such
passwords are handled.
May be set to
.I always
(which is the default) or
.IR never .
(Future versions of Archiveopteryx will offer more settings.)
.IP auth-digest-md5
controls whether the servers offer the digest-md5 SASL mechanism.
.I Enabled
by default.
.IP auth-cram-md5
controls whether the servers offer the cram-md5 SASL mechanism.
.I Enabled
by default.
.IP auth-plain
controls whether the servers offer the plain-text SASL
mechanism.
.I Enabled
by default.
.IP
Note that disabling auth-plain doesn't disable all plaintext
passwords, since SASL isn't always used. To disable plaintext
passwords, use the
.I allow-plaintext-passwords
variable above.
.IP auth-anonymous
controls whether the servers offer anonymous login,
.I disabled
by default.
.SS "Mail delivery"
.IP use-lmtp
controls whether
.BR smtpd (8)
should accept mail via LMTP (RFC 2033). The default is
.IR enabled .
.IP lmtp-address
specifies the address where
.BR smtpd (8)
should listen for LMTP connections, and to which
.BR deliver (8)
should connect. The default is
.IR 127.0.0.1 .
You may use an IPv4 or IPv6 address, or the fully-qualified path to a
Unix socket.
.IP lmtp-port
specifies which port
.BR smtpd (8)
should listen to, and which port
.BR deliver (8)
should connect to. The default is
.IR 2026 .
.IP use-smtp
controls whether
.BR smtpd (8)
should accept mail via SMTP/ESMTP (RFC 2821/1869). SMTP is
.I disabled
by default.
.IP smtp-address
specifies the address where
.BR smtpd (8)
should listen for SMTP connections The default is an empty string,
which means all available IPv4 and IPv6 interfaces.
.IP smtp-port
specifies which port
.BR smtpd (8)
should listen to. The default is
.IR 25 .
.IP message-copy
specifies whether or not to keep filesystem copies of incoming
messages, e.g. to burn a mail log to CD/DVD regularly.
The default value of
.I none
means that no copies are ever made.
.IP
Setting it to
.I delivered
keeps copies of all delivered messages, a value of
.I errors
keeps only those messages that could not be delivered because of errors, and
.I all
keeps copies of all messages.
.IP message-copy-directory
specifies a directory to which mail delivered via LMTP/SMTP is copied, if
.I message-COPY
is set.
.IP
If
.I message-copy-directory
does not exist or is not writable,
Archiveopteryx logs an error at startup and exits.
.IP
Each file in
.I message-copy-directory
contains one or more header lines, namely
.BR Error ,
.B From
and
.BR To ,
then an empty line, then the verbatim received mail message. If there is an
.B Error
line, the message was not delivered, and the rest of the line
describes the problem.
.IP
The file's name is a unique string of numbers and hyphens. It ends with
"-err" if there was an error injecting the message into the database.
.SS IMAP
.IP use-imap
must be enabled for
.BR imapd (8)
to accept IMAP connections. The default is
.IR true .
.IP imap-address
is the address where
.BR imapd (8)
listens for new connections. The
default, an empty string, means to listen on all available IPv4 and
IPv6 addresses.
.IP imap-port
is the port where 
.BR imapd (8)
accepts connections,
.I 143
by default.
.IP use-imaps
is enabled if
.BR imapd (8)
should also accept SSL-wrapped connections. The default is
.IR false .
.IP imaps-address
is the address where
.BR imapd (8)
listens for new SSL-wrapped connections. As for
.IR imap-address ,
the default is an empty string, which means all available IPv4 and
IPv6 addresses.
.IP imaps-port
is the port where
.BR imapd (8)
accepts SSL-wrapped connections,
.I 993
by default.
.IP announce-draft-support
is enabled if the IMAP server should advertise support for
drafts. Oryx tracks the draft versions of several IMAP extensions.
The default is
.IR disabled 
since version 1.0, since these drafts can change without notice, and 1.0
cannot.
.SS POP
.IP use-pop
must be enabled for
.BR pop3d (8)
to accept POP3 connections. The default is
.IR false .
.IP pop-address
is the address where
.BR pop3d (8)
listens for new connections. The default, an empty string, means to
listen on all available IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.
.IP pop-port
is the port where
.BR pop3d (8)
accepts connections,
.I 110
by default.
.SS HTTP
.IP use-http
decides whether Archiveopteryx offers HTTP service at all, and is
.I no
by default.
.IP http-address
is the address where
.BR httpd (8)
listens for new connections. The default, an empty string, means to
listen on all available IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.
.IP http-port
is the port where
.BR httpd (8)
accepts connections,
.I 8808
by default.
.IP accept-any-http-host
decides whether
.BR httpd (8)
accepts any hostname supplied by the server, and is
.I enabled
by default. Properly speaking, it would be better to disable this, but
that would add complexity without giving anything in return.
.SS TLS
.IP use-tls
regulates whether Archiveopteryx supports TLS at all. The default is
.IR enabled .
.IP tls-certificate
is the absolute file name of the TLS private key and signed certificate,
e.g.
.IR $CONFIGDIR/imap.p15 .
If
.I tls-certificate
is not specified, tlsproxy generates a private key and a self-signed
certificate at runtime and stores both in
.IR $CONFIGDIR/automatic-key.p15 .
.IP tlsproxy-address
is the address where
.BR tlsproxy (8)
listens for new connections. The default is
.IR 127.0.0.1 .
.IP tlsproxy-port
is the port where
.BR tlsproxy (8)
accepts connections,
.I 2061
by default.
.SH SYNTAX
.PP
The name is case insensitive, as shown:
.IP
hostname = test1.example.com
.br
HOSTNAME = mailserver.example.org
.PP
The value is case insensitive wherever possible. (Exceptions
include logfile, db-user and db-password.)
.PP
There are three datatypes: Strings, numbers and toggles.
.PP
Strings may be written as a single unquoted word or quoted with either
single or double quotes, as shown in these three examples:
.IP
db-password = single.word
.br
db-password = "rock'n'roll" # a 12-character password
.br
db-password = 'two words, quoted' # a 17-character one
.PP
Only single-line strings can be used. Single-word strings may contain
the characters a-z, A-Z, 0-9, dot, hyphen and slash.
.PP
Numbers are integers not smaller than 0 and not larger than 2147483647
(ie. 31-bit unsigned integers).
.PP
Toggles are written as a single word.
.IR Yes ,
.IR true ,
.IR on ,
.IR 1 ,
and
.I enabled
all
mean that the toggle is enabled, while
.IR no ,
.IR false ,
.IR off ,
.IR 0 ,
and
.I disabled
unsurprisingly mean disabled. Toggles are case-insensitive.
.IP
use-lmtp = yes
.br
crash-and-delete-all-the-mail = off
.PP
Spaces are allowed at the start of the line, before and after '=', and
after the value. Comments extend from '#' to the end of the line.
.IP
# this is a comment
.br
hostname=stuff.nonsense.example.com # also a comment
.br
 logfile    =   /dev/null# and this is a comment
.br
# empty lines are ignored
.SH AUTHOR
The Archiveopteryx developers, info@oryx.com.
.SH VERSION
This man page covers Archiveopteryx version 1.04, released 2006-03-13,
http://www.oryx.com/archiveopteryx/1.02.html.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR archiveopteryx (7),
.BR deliver (8),
.BR imapd (8),
.BR logd (8),
.BR ocd (8),
.BR pop3d (8),
.BR smtpd (8),
.BR tlsproxy (8),
.BR oryx (7),
http://www.oryx.com/archiveopteryx/
