.\" Copyright Oryx Mail Systems GmbH. Enquiries to info@oryx.com, please.
.TH oryx 7 2004-07-20 www.oryx.com "Mailstore Documentation"
.SH NAME
Oryx Mail Systems GmbH - the company behind Mailstore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B telnet oryx.com 25
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
There are too many disclaimers in the software world, and there's too
much broken software. Too much software is not "fit for a particular
purpose", according to its own authors.
.PP
Oryx Mail Systems GmbH <info@oryx.com> is a small virtual company,
founded (and funded) by two arrogant programmers who believe that, in
the right niche, it's possible to make a living from software that
works as advertised.
.PP
We think the need to manage and use large archives of electronic mail
constitutes one such niche.
.SH "CONTACT DETAILS"
We prefer communication by email, to info@oryx.com. Faxes may be sent to
+49 89 32356409, and paper mail to
.IP
Oryx Mail Systems GmbH
.br
Joseph-Dollinger-Bogen 14
.br
D-80807 Munich
.br
Germany
.SH "PRODUCTS AND SERVICES"
All future Oryx products are based on or connected with Oryx Mailstore.
.PP
Our emphasis for the first releases is to get Mailstore tested in the
field. Until Mailstore is battle-hardened, we do not wish to accept
money for it.
.PP
However, enquiries are always welcome.
.SH "MISSION STATEMENT"
To develop and market scalable, reliable software for handling and
archiving large volumes of email.
.PP
The company will specialize and be known for high competence in its
chosen area.
.PP
The company will survive and thrive over the long term. It will take care
to avoid employee burnout, so that a stable, long-term team of exceptional
quality can build stable, reliable products.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
The Oryx Mailstore developers, info@oryx.com.
.SH VERSION
This man page covers Oryx Mailstore version 0.93, released 2005-04-18,
http://www.oryx.com/mailstore/0.93.html.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mailstore (7),
.BR mailstore.conf (5),
.BR deliver (8),
.BR imapd (8),
.BR logd (8),
.BR ocd (8),
.BR pop3d (8),
.BR smtpd (8),
.BR tlsproxy (8),
http://www.oryx.com/mailstore/
